( Drums Playing )
( Crowd Cheering )
( Music Continues )
( Violin Playing )
Narrator:
IN A SOCIETY AS DIVERSE AS OURS,
THERE ARE SITUATIONS THAT MANY
PEOPLE CONSIDER TO BE UNFAIR,
UNACCEPTABLE OR UNENDURABLE.
THESE PEOPLE MAY JOIN TOGETHER
IN SPONTANEOUS
OR ORGANIZED ACTIVITIES
TO GAIN POWER AND SEEK SOLUTIONS
THROUGH COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR
AND SOCIAL ACTION.
SOCIOLOGISTS STUDY
COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR
BECAUSE OF ITS INFLUENCE
ON SOCIAL CHANGE.
SUCH CHANGE OFTEN BEGINS
WITH THE ISOLATED ACTIONS
OF INDIVIDUALS
AND GROWS INTO
ORGANIZED SOCIAL MOVEMENTS.
( Xylophone Music )
RALLIES,
FADS,
RIOTS,
PUBLIC CELEBRATIONS,
STRIKES.
WHAT DO THESE SOCIAL EVENTS
HAVE IN COMMON?
THEY ALL EXHIBIT
COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR.
Tracey McKenzie Elliott:
COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR
REFERS TO A CONTINUUM OF
NON-ROUTINE, UNUSUAL BEHAVIORS
ENGAGED IN
BY LARGE NUMBERS OF PEOPLE.
THESE BEHAVIORS ARE UNUSUAL
AND NON-ROUTINE
BECAUSE THEY'RE NOT GOVERNED
BY THE TYPICAL,
EVERYDAY SOCIAL NORMS
THAT USUALLY
SHAPE SOCIAL LIFE IN ACTION.
COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR
IS REALLY A CONTINUUM
OF NON-ROUTINE BEHAVIORS
THAT DON'T OCCUR EVERY DAY,
THAT ARE OFTEN
VERY EXTRAORDINARY,
THAT ARE ENGAGED IN
BY A RELATIVELY
LARGE NUMBER OF PEOPLE.
( Crowd Voices )
Narrator:
AT ONE END OF THE CONTINUUM
OF COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR
IS THE SPONTANEOUS
BEHAVIOR OF PEOPLE
WHO REACT TO SITUATIONS
THEY PERCEIVE AS UNCERTAIN
OR THREATENING,
AS IN A RIOT,
OR SITUATIONS
THAT ARE EXTREMELY ATTRACTIVE,
LIKE A MARDI GRAS CELEBRATION.
William Kornblum:
BY SPONTANEOUS
COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR,
WE REALLY MEAN BEHAVIOR
THAT'S NOT PLANNED
AND NOT ORGANIZED BEFOREHAND
IT SEEMS TO OCCUR
VERY UNEXPECTEDLY.
Richard Scotch:
WE CAN SEE
WHEN PEOPLE GATHER TOGETHER
AND SOMETHING HAPPENS THAT
PEOPLE PERCEIVE AS THREATENING,
THEY OFTEN WILL RESPOND IN FEAR.
THEY LOOK AROUND TO OTHERS TO
TRY TO FIND OUT WHAT'S GOING ON,
OR WHAT KIND OF RESPONSE
IS APPROPRIATE.
IN SOME CIRCUMSTANCES,
PEOPLE REMAIN CALM
IN THE FACE OF FEAR,
AND IN OTHER RESPONSES,
THEY SIMPLY PANIC.
AND PEOPLE MIGHT STAMPEDE
FOR THE EXIT OF A BUILDING,
AND MANY PEOPLE ARE HURT.
Protesters:
PEACEFULLY ASSEMBLE,
PEACEFULLY ASSEMBLE ...
Narrator:
AT THE OTHER END
OF THE CONTINUUM
OF COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR
ARE PLANNED, ORGANIZED EVENTS,
LIKE RALLIES, DEMONSTRATIONS,
PROTEST MEETINGS OR FESTIVALS.
( Bagpipe Music )
WHY DO SOCIOLOGISTS
EXPLORE COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR?
WHAT DO THEY HOPE TO DISCOVER?
William Kornblum:
COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR
HAS LONG TRADITIONS
OF BEING STUDIED
BY SOCIOLOGISTS,
BECAUSE
FROM COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR,
WE OFTEN GET THE BEGINNINGS
OF VERY IMPORTANT SOCIAL CHANGES
IN THE SOCIETY.
SO WHEN CROWDS
REACT IN CERTAIN WAYS
OR WHEN PEOPLE EXPRESS
THEMSELVES IN UNUSUAL FORMS,
SOCIOLOGISTS KNOW THAT
THAT'S OFTEN THE BEGINNING
OF SOME EVENTS
THAT WILL TAKE PLACE
THAT COULD RESULT
IN VERY IMPORTANT CHANGE.
Tracey McKenzie Elliott:
SOCIOLOGISTS,
WHEN STUDYING
COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR,
ATTEMPT TO DISCOVER AND IDENTIFY
UNDER WHAT CONDITIONS
CERTAIN TYPES
OF COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR ARISE
AND WHETHER THIS
COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR
WILL DEVELOP INTO
A SOCIAL MOVEMENT OR NOT.
Richard Scotch:
SOMETIMES COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR
IS JUST BLOWING OFF STEAM,
BUT IN OTHER CASES,
IT IS THE BEGINNING
OF LONG-TERM ATTEMPTS
TO CHANGE SOCIETY.
( Music Playing )
Narrator:
TO UNDERSTAND AND PREDICT
SPONTANEOUS COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR,
SOME SOCIOLOGISTS USE A TOOL
DEVELOPED BY JOHN LOFLAND,
CALLED THE TYPOLOGY OF
SPONTANEOUS COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR.
BY EXAMINING THE STRUCTURE
AND MOTIVATING EMOTIONS,
SOCIOLOGISTS IDENTIFY
SIMILARITIES AND DIFFERENCES
AMONG COLLECTIVE BEHAVIORS.
WHEN LOOKING AT THE STRUCTURE
OF COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR,
SOCIOLOGISTS FIRST DISTINGUISH
BETWEEN A "CROWD"
AND A "MASS" OF PEOPLE.
Tracey McKenzie Elliott:
IN A CROWD,
PEOPLE ARE
IN CLOSE PHYSICAL PROXIMITY
TO ONE ANOTHER.
IN A MASS,
THE GROUP IS DISPERSED
ACROSS A GEOGRAPHICAL AREA.
A MASS IS ALSO
A LARGE NUMBER OF PEOPLE,
BUT THEY'RE NOT NECESSARILY
IN EACH OTHER'S PRESENCE.
THEY'RE ALL ORIENTED
IN A CERTAIN WAY.
Dick Clark:
THE BALL IS BEGINNING TO MOVE...
William Kornblum:
THEY MAY BE WATCHING
A SIMILAR TELEVISION SHOW,
WATCHING THE NEW YEAR'S EVE
CELEBRATION.
Dick Clark:
...3, 2, 1.
HAPPY 2000!
( Crowd Cheers )
William Kornblum:
THE PEOPLE GATHERED
IN TIMES SQUARE ARE A CROWD.
THE PEOPLE WATCHING
ON TELEVISION ARE A MASS.
Narrator:
IN LOFLAND'S CHART,
THE PRIMARY MOTIVATING EMOTIONS
OF THE PEOPLE INVOLVED
INCLUDE FEAR, HOSTILITY AND JOY.
THE INTERSECTION
OF THE TWO FACTORS,
STRUCTURE AND
MOTIVATING EMOTION,
GIVES SOCIOLOGISTS
A CLEARER PICTURE
OF SPONTANEOUS
COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR.
AN EXAMPLE IS WHAT HAPPENS
WHEN THE EMOTION OF FEAR
INTERSECTS WITH A CROWD.
( Alarm Ringing )
COME ON, LET'S GO!
GET OUT THE DOOR--
THEY'RE CLOSING THE DOOR!
William Kornblum:
THE ORDERLINESS OF SOCIETY
IS BASED ON A LOT
OF VERY SMALL NORMS
WE DON'T NECESSARILY
ALWAYS PAY ATTENTION TO,
LIKE WHEN
A LARGE GROUP OF PEOPLE
ARE TRYING TO GET THROUGH
A SMALLER EXIT,
WE LET EACH OTHER TAKE TURNS.
WE DON'T GET MAD IF SOMEBODY
STEPS IN FRONT OF US,
BECAUSE WE KNOW WE HAVE TO STEP
IN FRONT OF SOMEBODY ELSE.
Crewman:
ORDER!
KEEP ORDER HERE!
William Kornblum:
WHEN FEAR MOTIVATES
THAT SAME GROUP OF PEOPLE,
THEY VIOLATE THOSE NORMS
AND ALL PRESS FOR THE EXIT
AND SHOULDER EACH OTHER
OUT OF THE WAY,
AND THE WEAKER ONES FALL DOWN
AND MAY GET TRAMPLED
BY THE OTHERS.
Crewman:
GET BACK, I SAY!
William Kornblum:
AN EXAMPLE OF A MASS
BEING DRIVEN BY FEAR
HAS TO DO WITH
THE FINANCIAL MARKETS.
( Bell Clanging )
MASSES OF PEOPLE OWN SECURITIES,
MUTUAL FUNDS, STOCKS AND BONDS.
WHEN THEY FEAR SUDDENLY THAT
THE MARKET IS LOSING ITS VALUE
BECAUSE THE VALUE OF STOCKS
DECLINES PRECIPITOUSLY,
THEY THEN START TO SELL THEIR
STOCKS AS MUCH AS THEY CAN.
THEY'RE MOTIVATED BY FEAR.
( Music Playing )
Narrator:
WHEN HOSTILITY
INTERSECTS WITH CROWDS,
A DIFFERENT TYPE OF
COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR OCCURS.
( People Screaming )
Richard Scotch:
FOR EXAMPLE,
RACE RIOTS HAVE OFTEN
INVOLVED MEMBERS OF ONE RACE
ACTING OUT AGAINST
PEOPLE OF ANOTHER RACE.
IN OUR AMERICAN HISTORY,
WE HAVE INSTANCES
BOTH OF RACE RIOTS,
IN WHICH WHITES ATTACKED
AFRICAN-AMERICANS
OR OTHER MINORITY GROUP MEMBERS,
AND SOME INSTANCES
WHERE MINORITY COMMUNITIES
HAVE ACTED AGAINST WHITES
IN THEIR COMMUNITY.
Tracey McKenzie Elliott:
AN EXAMPLE OF A CROWD DRIVEN
BY THE EMOTION OF HOSTILITY
COULD BE IN RACE RIOTS,
WHEN YOU HAVE ANGER
AND HATRED AND FRUSTRATION,
AND YOU SEE THE LOOTERS
BREAKING INTO STOREFRONTS
AND STEALING PROPERTY.
William Kornblum:
MASSES HAVE OFTEN BEEN
DRIVEN BY HOSTILITY, AS WELL.
Reporter:
THIS IS THE LATEST STUFF
THAT WAS SHOT BY THE CBS CREW
THAT HAVE BEEN ROVING,
AND THEY SAID THAT THEY
HAVE HIT EVERY SINGLE BUILDING
IN THE DOWNTOWN AREA.
William Kornblum:
MASSES OF PEOPLE
WERE INVOLVED IN
WATCHING THE LOS ANGELES RIOTS
ON TELEVISION
THAT ENSUED AFTER THE ACQUITTAL
OF THE POLICE
WHO HAD BEATEN RODNEY KING.
IN THREE DAYS OF VIOLENCE
THIS WEEK...
William Kornblum:
THAT MASS BEHAVIOR,
THAT MANY PEOPLE WATCHING
THOSE EVENTS AT THE TIME,
HAD A BIG INFLUENCE
ON AMERICAN POLITICS
AT THAT MOMENT.
Narrator:
IN CONTRAST TO THE EMOTIONS
OF FEAR AND HOSTILITY,
A POSITIVE EMOTION,
LIKE JOY,
WOULD TRIGGER A DIFFERENT
COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR.
( Fireworks Explode )
THE WORLD-WIDE CELEBRATION
ON JANUARY 1, 2000,
AS WE ENTERED A NEW MILLENNIUM,
IS A GOOD EXAMPLE
OF A MASS MOTIVATED BY JOY.
JOY ALSO MOTIVATES CROWDS.
( Band Playing )
William Kornblum:
THERE ARE A LOT OF INSTANCES
OF CROWDS BEING DRIVEN BY JOY.
WHENEVER YOU HAVE AN EVENT
THAT'S IMPORTANT IN A CULTURE,
YOU GET HUGE CROWDS
COMING TO THAT JOYFUL EVENT.
( Cheers and Whistles )
Tracey McKenzie Elliott:
SOME EXAMPLES OF CROWDS
MOTIVATED TO COLLECTIVE ACTION
BY THE EMOTION OF JOY
COULD BE MARDI GRAS CELEBRATIONS
WHERE PEOPLE COME TOGETHER
AND CELEBRATE,
AN AUDIENCE AT A ROCK CONCERT
OR AT A SPORTING EVENT,
WHEN PEOPLE PARTICIPATE
IN THE WAVE TOGETHER.
( Music Playing )
Narrator:
SOCIOLOGISTS SEEK TO UNDERSTAND
THE CONTINUUM
OF COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR
THAT OCCURS IN CROWDS
AND MASSES OF PEOPLE.
BY EXPLORING THE STRUCTURE
AND MOTIVATING EMOTIONS
OF COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR,
SOCIOLOGISTS CAN DETERMINE
HOW SPONTANEOUS BEHAVIOR
MIGHT LEAD TO WELL-ORGANIZED
SOCIAL MOVEMENTS.
( Orchestral Music )
Narrator:
ARTISTS--FROM PAINTERS TO
PHOTOGRAPHERS TO FILMMAKERS--
ARE OFTEN DRAWN TO THE FEELINGS
AND IMAGES ASSOCIATED WITH
COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR
AND SOCIAL MOVEMENTS.
THEY PORTRAY PEOPLE
BEING SWEPT UP
IN THE GREAT EVENTS
OF THEIR TIME.
( Orchestral Music )
ARTISTS CAPTURE
IMAGES OF PEOPLE'S LIVES
AS THEY ARE DISRUPTED,
FOR BETTER OR WORSE,
BY SOCIAL MOVEMENTS
AND SOCIAL CHANGE.
THROUGH VISUAL SOCIOLOGY,
WE CAN EXPLORE
THESE DYNAMIC MOMENTS
AND FIND PARALLELS
IN OUR OWN LIVES.
( Music Playing )
Narrator:
SOCIAL MOVEMENTS HAVE
A LARGE IMPACT ON SOCIETY
AND ON OUR LIVES.
MOST OF US WILL NEVER BELONG
TO A REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT,
BUT MANY OF US WILL BECOME
A MEMBER OF AN ORGANIZATION
THAT IS INVOLVED
IN A SOCIAL MOVEMENT.
William Kornblum:
A SOCIAL MOVEMENT
IS A CONCERTED EFFORT
BY GROUPS OF PEOPLE
TO BRING ABOUT SOCIAL CHANGE
AND TO CREATE
NEW SOCIAL INSTITUTIONS.
( People Chanting )
Parker Palmer:
IF YOU LOOK AT HISTORY,
YOU'LL FIND THAT WORKING
ALONGSIDE INSTITUTIONS
AND ORGANIZATIONS
HAVE BEEN MOVEMENTS
THAT HAVE BEEN CREATED BY PEOPLE
WHO DIDN'T HAVE ACCESS
TO INSTITUTIONAL POWER,
AND THEY HAVE BEEN ENORMOUSLY
CREATIVE AND EFFECTIVE
IN CHANGING THE COURSE
OF HUMAN HISTORY.
William Kornblum:
THE CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT
IS A WONDERFUL EXAMPLE
OF A SOCIAL MOVEMENT,
BECAUSE PEOPLE WHO WERE INVOLVED
IN EFFORTS TO BRING ABOUT
GREATER RACIAL EQUALITY
IN THE UNITED STATES
AND THE INTEGRATION OF
THE RACES IN EVERYDAY LIFE.
Martin Luther King, Jr.:
WE'RE ON THE MOVE NOW.
YES, WE'RE ON THE MOVE
AND NO WAVE OF RACISM
CAN STOP US...
Narrator:
LIKE MANY SOCIAL MOVEMENTS,
THE CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT
GREW OUT OF
SPONTANEOUS EPISODES
OF COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR
OFTEN IGNITED BY THE ACTIONS
OF AN INDIVIDUAL.
Terry Williams:
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT
TO ALSO REMEMBER
THAT THE COLLECTIVE MOVEMENT
OR THIS COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR
ARE OFTENTIMES
SPEARHEADED BY
INDIVIDUAL COURAGE
AND INDIVIDUAL BRAVERY.
IN OTHER WORDS,
THESE MOVEMENTS ARE NOT
SIMPLY STARTED SPONTANEOUSLY.
THEY START BY THE EFFORTS
OF USUALLY AN INDIVIDUAL
WITH A CERTAIN AMOUNT
OF COURAGE.
Narrator:
IN THE CASE
OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT,
THAT INDIVIDUAL WAS ROSA PARKS,
A SEAMSTRESS
IN MONTGOMERY, ALABAMA.
Parker Palmer:
DECEMBER 1955,
SHE SITS DOWN
AT THE FRONT OF THE BUS
IN A HISTORICALLY
SEGREGATED SOUTHERN CITY
WHERE AFRICAN-AMERICANS
WERE SUPPOSED TO ALWAYS SIT
AT THE BACK OF THE BUS,
OR NOT SIT AT ALL,
IF WHITE PEOPLE WANTED THE SEAT.
AND ONE DAY IN EARLY DECEMBER,
SHE DECIDES, "I'M GONNA SIT
AT THE FRONT OF THE BUS."
GO ON, MOVE BACK
TO THE COLORED SECTION.
Parker Palmer:
SHE WAS ASKED,
"WHY DID YOU DECIDE TO DO THAT?"
AND SHE SAID,
"BECAUSE I WAS TIRED,"
BUT SHE DIDN'T MEAN THAT
SHE WAS JUST PHYSICALLY TIRED.
SHE MEANT HER SOUL WAS TIRED.
HER HEART WAS TIRED.
HER WHOLE BEING WAS TIRED
OF LIVING A DIVIDED LIFE,
OF BEHAVING ON THE OUTSIDE AS
IF SHE WERE NOT THE FULL PERSON
SHE KNEW HERSELF
TO BE ON THE INSIDE,
WITH AS MUCH RIGHT TO THAT SEAT
AS ANY WHITE PERSON HAD.
NO!
Parker Palmer:
AND WE KNOW, OF COURSE,
THAT THAT ACTION OF HERS
TRIGGERED AN ENORMOUS UPRISING
IN THIS COUNTRY
CALLED THE CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT
OF THE '50s AND '60s
WHICH ENDED IN NEW LAWS,
ANTI-SEGREGATION LAWS,
BEING PASSED
BY THE SUPREME COURT.
Terry Williams:
THAT EFFORT WAS
EXTRAORDINARILY COLLECTIVE
IN THE SENSE THAT THIS WAS
MASSIVE NUMBERS OF PEOPLE
WHO WERE ORGANIZED IN CITIES
AND IN THE COUNTRYSIDE
TO PETITION THE GOVERNMENT
TO CHANGE THESE LAWS,
TO CHANGE
THE DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES
AND ALLOW PEOPLE
A PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION
AND THE RIGHT TO VOTE,
AS WELL AS SOME OTHER ISSUES.
WE'RE WILLING
TO BE BEATEN FOR DEMOCRACY,
AND YOU MISUSE
DEMOCRACY IN THE STREET.
YOU BEAT PEOPLE BLOODY
IN ORDER THAT THEY WILL NOT HAVE
THE PRIVILEGE TO VOTE.
Narrator:
SOCIOLOGISTS EXPLORE
A SOCIAL MOVEMENT
BY EXAMINING
THE NATURE OF CHANGE IT SEEKS,
THE AMOUNT OF CHANGE IT SEEKS,
AND THE GOAL OF ITS MEMBERS.
THIS EXPLORATION REVEALS
A VARIETY OF TYPES
OF SOCIAL MOVEMENTS,
INCLUDING REVOLUTIONARY,
CONSERVATIVE, REACTIONARY,
MILLENARIAN, REFORMIST
AND EXPRESSIVE.
IN THE CASE OF
THE CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT,
WE SEE AN EXAMPLE OF
A REFORMIST SOCIAL MOVEMENT.
William Kornblum:
A REFORMIST SOCIAL MOVEMENT
IS AN EFFORT BY PEOPLE
IN THE MOVEMENT TO CREATE CHANGE
WHICH IS NOT REVOLUTIONARY,
DOESN'T TEAR DOWN MANY OF THE
INSTITUTIONS OF THE SOCIETY;
IT TRIES TO CHANGE THEM.
Martin Luther King, Jr.:
NOW IS THE TIME
TO RISE FROM THE DARK AND
DESOLATE VALLEY OF SEGREGATION
TO THE SUN-LIT PATH
OF RACIAL JUSTICE.
Terry Williams:
THE LAWS NEEDED TO BE REFORMED.
THEY NEEDED TO BE CHANGED.
AND IN ORDER TO DO THAT,
YOU HAD TO HAVE
THIS KIND OF MASSIVE EFFORT,
BECAUSE LAWS ARE RARELY CHANGED
BY INDIVIDUAL EFFORT.
AND SO THIS
CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT
REPRESENTED
THE REFORMIST MOVEMENT,
I THINK, IN A CLASSIC WAY.
( Protesters Chanting )
Narrator:
BUT THE CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT
INVOLVES MORE THAN
AN ATTEMPT TO REFORM
OR CHANGE ASPECTS
OF OUR SOCIETY.
WHAT WE CELEBRATE EVEN MORE
IS THAT WE ARE ALL DESCENDANTS
OF OTHER ITALIAN ADVENTURERS...
Narrator:
INCLUDED IN THIS MOVEMENT
ARE ELEMENTS OF NOT ONLY
A REFORMIST SOCIAL MOVEMENT,
BUT ALSO
AN EXPRESSIVE SOCIAL MOVEMENT.
( Protesters Jeering )
Joshua Gamson:
I THINK OF
AN EXPRESSIVE SOCIAL MOVEMENT
AS A MOVEMENT
THAT IS LESS GEARED
TOWARDS JUST
INSTRUMENTAL CHANGES,
AND MORE GEARED TOWARDS
THE SORT OF CELEBRATION
OF IDENTITY, USUALLY.
Louis Farrakhan:
I GREET ALL OF YOU,
MY DEAR AND WONDERFUL BROTHERS,
FOR THIS IS THE DAY
THE LORD HAS MADE...
Narrator:
THE MILLION-MAN MARCH,
WHICH TOOK PLACE
IN WASHINGTON, D.C.
IN THE FALL OF 1995,
CAN BE VIEWED AS PART OF
THE CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT.
BUT IT ALSO HAS MANY
OF THE CHARACTERISTICS
OF AN EXPRESSIVE
SOCIAL MOVEMENT.
William Kornblum:
IN THE MILLION-MAN MARCH,
THERE'S A LOT OF EMPHASIS ON
THE EXPRESSIVE SOCIAL MOVEMENT,
BUT THE GOALS
OF THAT SOCIAL MOVEMENT
ARE ALSO ABOUT REFORM,
THE WAY THEY WERE
FOR THE CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT.
BUT IT'S AN EFFORT,
BY NUMBERS OF AFRICAN-AMERICAN
AND OTHER LEADERS,
TO CREATE A SOCIAL MOVEMENT
THAT WILL ADDRESS ISSUES
OF MALE RESPONSIBILITY
IN THE FAMILY,
AND ALSO THE WAY MEN
COMMUNICATE WITH EACH OTHER.
( Music Playing )
Narrator:
WHETHER REFORMIST OR EXPRESSIVE,
SOCIAL MOVEMENTS SEEK CHANGE
AND THE ATTAINMENT OF GOALS.
THEY OFTEN GAIN MOMENTUM FROM
ISOLATED, SPONTANEOUS EVENTS
AND GROW INTO
WIDESPREAD PHENOMENA
THAT CAN HAVE
FAR-REACHING EFFECTS ON SOCIETY.
OFTEN THE ISOLATED ACTIONS
OF INDIVIDUALS
LEAD TO COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR.
THAT COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR
CAN BE DIRECTED TOWARD
ACCOMPLISHING CHANGE
THROUGH THE FORMATION
OF A SOCIAL MOVEMENT.
( Music Playing )
Narrator:
DURING THE 1980s,
AMERICA AWAKENED
TO A GRIM REALITY:
AN EPIDEMIC WAS SPREADING
THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY.
AIDS WAS DRAMATICALLY
CHANGING PEOPLE'S LIVES.
THAT FACT WAS
POIGNANTLY DEPICTED
IN THE 1987 "NAMES PROJECT,"
WHEN A HUGE AIDS MEMORIAL QUILT
WAS DISPLAYED ON THE MALL
IN WASHINGTON D.C.
EACH PANEL REPRESENTED
A VICTIM OF AIDS.
WHILE THIS PROJECT BROUGHT
ATTENTION TO THE CRISIS
AND THE NEED TO DEVOTE
MORE FUNDS TO HIV RESEARCH,
MANY PEOPLE FELT
MORE NEEDED TO BE DONE.
AND INDIVIDUALS,
LIKE SOCIOLOGIST VICTOR AYALA,
DECIDED TO DO WHATEVER
THEY COULD TO HELP.
Victor Ayala:
BACK IN 1984,
I HAD A NUMBER OF FRIENDS,
THAT OVERNIGHT, WE REALIZED
THAT THEY HAD DEVELOPED
SOME TYPE OF SICKNESS.
WE DIDN'T KNOW WHAT IT WAS.
IT WAS A GREAT MYSTERY.
AND IN 1987,
A MEMBER OF MY FAMILY
HAD CONTRACTED AIDS,
AND AS A RESULT OF THAT,
THERE BEGAN THE JOURNEY.
Narrator:
AYALA'S DESIRE
TO LEARN MORE ABOUT HIV
GRADUALLY EVOLVED
INTO FORMAL RESEARCH.
Victor Ayala:
FIRST I WAS JUST
DOING VOLUNTEER WORK.
FROM THERE I MOVED TO STARTING
TO DEVELOP A QUESTIONNAIRE
WHERE I WAS ASKING PATIENTS
ABOUT THEIR SEXUAL ACTIVITY.
THEN I TOOK A PART-TIME POSITION
WITH THE NEW YORK
STATE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
WHERE I WAS A HOTLINE COUNSELOR.
I FOUND IT FASCINATING, IN TERMS
OF WORKING ON THIS HOTLINE,
AND WHAT PEOPLE WOULD TELL YOU,
IN TERMS
OF THEIR SEXUAL PRACTICES
OR IN TERMS OF THEIR FEAR
AROUND THINKING THAT THEY
MAY HAVE CONTRACTED HIV.
Narrator:
AYALA'S VOLUNTEER WORK
COINCIDED WITH HIS
GRADUATE STUDIES IN SOCIOLOGY.
ULTIMATELY, HE DECIDED TO FOCUS
HIS DOCTORAL DISSERTATION
ON AIDS AND THE URBAN POOR.
Victor Ayala:
I WAS REALLY FASCINATED
WITH HOW THE URBAN POOR
WERE DEALING WITH HIV,
BECAUSE NO ONE WAS
REALLY TALKING ABOUT THAT,
AND SO WHAT I DO,
IS GIVE VOICE TO THE EXPERIENCE
OF URBAN POOR PEOPLE
DEALING WITH AIDS,
HOW THEY BASICALLY
STRUGGLE TO SURVIVE;
AND HOW, ON THE ONE HAND,
YOU MAY BE PROVIDING
MEDICAL CARE TO THIS POPULATION,
BUT WITHOUT
ANY SENSE OF STABILITY,
WITHOUT HOUSING,
WITHOUT ADEQUATE FOOD,
WITHOUT
AN ADEQUATE SUPPORT SYSTEM.
I FOUND THAT THE TYPE OF SERVICE
THAT WAS BEING PROVIDED
WAS JUST NOT HELPING THEM.
I THINK THE OTHER AREA
THAT MY WORK TOUCHES ON
IS THAT SOMETIMES
HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS
MAY HAVE A PERCEPTION,
OR A JUDGMENT,
OF THE POPULATION
THAT THEY SERVE.
AND WITH THIS
PARTICULAR POPULATION
REALLY BEING URBAN POOR,
THE DISENFRANCHISED POOR,
CLEARLY, THERE WAS A STIGMA
IN TERMS OF HOW THEY
SAW THIS POPULATION,
AND THIS WORK
DEFINITELY DEMONSTRATES
HOW THAT STIGMA IMPACTS
ON HOW THEY WERE SERVED.
Narrator:
AS WORD OF HIS RESEARCH SPREAD,
AYALA BEGAN TO RECEIVE
INVITATIONS TO SPEAK
PUBLICLY ON AIDS IN 1986.
AT CONFERENCES
AND PUBLIC MEETINGS.
Victor Ayala:
I STARTED SPEAKING
AT THAT TIME
I WAS ALSO INVOLVED
IN DEVELOPING
THE BROOKLYN AIDS TASK FORCE
THAT PROVIDES VARIOUS SERVICES
TO PEOPLE WITH AIDS
AND THEIR FAMILY.
SO MY SPEAKING ENGAGEMENTS
WERE REALLY ABOUT
PROVIDING INFORMATION,
BUT ALSO IT WAS ABOUT TRYING
TO RAISE AWARENESS AND MONEY.
I'M REALLY HAPPY THAT YOU ARE
HERE TODAY AND, AS YOU KNOW,
WE HAVE BEEN TALKING
A LOT ABOUT HIV AND AIDS
IN THE URBAN COMMUNITY.
Narrator:
WHAT BEGAN AS VOLUNTEER WORK
EVOLVED INTO
A ROUND-THE-CLOCK JOB.
AT THE PEAK OF HIS ACTIVITY,
AYALA WAS TEACHING
AT A COMMUNITY COLLEGE,
WORKING WITH AIDS PATIENTS
AT NIGHT,
AND SQUEEZING IN
SPEAKING ENGAGEMENTS.
Victor Ayala:
I BELIEVE THAT THE PERSONAL
BECAME THE POLITICAL,
AND THAT IT WAS SO IMPORTANT
TO GIVE VOICE TO THE PEOPLE
THAT I HAD WORKED WITH.
THEY WEREN'T
JUST RESEARCH SUBJECTS.
THEY WERE SO ALIVE
AND THEY REALLY TAUGHT ME
SO MUCH ABOUT
LIVING AND SURVIVING,
AND BASICALLY, LEARNING TO LIVE
WITHIN ONE'S OWN CIRCUMSTANCE.
SO I WANTED TO
GET THAT MESSAGE OUT.
TV Host:
IT DOES ALSO CONTRIBUTE
TO BROADENING THE AWARENESS
OR GIVING MORE VOICE
TO THIS GROUP OF THE POPULATION
WHICH, OTHERWISE,
NO ONE WOULD SPEAK FOR...
Narrator:
IRONICALLY,
BECOMING AN ACTIVIST
WAS SOMETHING THAT AYALA
HAD NEVER ENVISIONED.
I THINK THE MOST
IMPORTANT THING FOR ME
IS TO RECOGNIZE THAT THERE IS
HUMAN VALUE IN THIS POPULATION.
Victor Ayala:
WHEN I STARTED GRADUATE SCHOOL,
I DID NOT THINK THAT I WOULD
BE DOING WHAT I'M DOING TODAY,
AND I THINK WHEN YOU
DO THIS TYPE OF WORK,
AS A SOCIOLOGIST, YOU HAVE
A SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
YOU HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY
TO IMPACT CHANGE.
Narrator:
FOR AYALA, THE PAYOFF IS SEEING
THAT HIS EFFORTS HAVE PRODUCED
A TANGIBLE BENEFIT.
Victor Ayala:
WE HAVE A GREAT
MULTISERVICE AGENCY IN BROOKLYN,
THE BROOKLYN AIDS TASK FORCE.
IT'S AN AGENCY THAT IS DIVERSE.
IT REALLY TAKES INTO ACCOUNT
MULTICULTURALISM.
IT LOOKS AT GAY AND LESBIANS,
IT LOOKS AT AFRICAN-AMERICANS,
IT LOOKS AT LATINOS,
IT LOOKS AT ADOLESCENTS,
AND IT REALLY TRIES
TO BRING ABOUT
COMPREHENSIVE
AND COMPASSIONATE SERVICES.
Narrator:
IN THE YEARS SINCE
VICTOR AYALA'S WORK BEGAN,
AIDS AWARENESS
HAS GROWN WORLDWIDE.
AYALA'S STORY DEMONSTRATES
THAT A SINGLE INDIVIDUAL,
DEDICATED TO SOCIAL ACTION,
CAN SOMETIMES HAVE AN INFLUENCE
THAT FAR EXCEEDS
HIS OR HER EXPECTATIONS.
Victor Ayala:
I THINK WE HAVE
AN OBLIGATION TO OUR SOCIETY,
AND WHATEVER PEOPLE CAN DO,
THEY MUST DO,
EVEN IF IT'S FEEDING
THE HOMELESS,
EVEN IF IT'S SHOWING KINDNESS
TO AN INDIVIDUAL,
THAT WE ARE RESPONSIBLE
FOR OUR OWN HUMANITY
AND THAT WE ALL
SHOULD PLAY A ROLE IN THAT.
AND I DON'T BELIEVE THAT
SOMEONE'S COMING TO DO THAT,
SO IT STARTS
WITH EACH INDIVIDUAL.
AND I REALLY BELIEVE
AN INDIVIDUAL CAN
MAKE A DIFFERENCE,
AND YOU JUST HAVE
TO GET INVOLVED
AND MOVE YOUR AGENDA
AND MAKE IT WORK FOR YOU.
YOU CAN MAKE A DIFFERENCE.
( Music Playing )
Narrator:
SOCIAL ACTION OFTEN
INVOLVES COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR,
SUCH AS RALLIES,
DEMONSTRATIONS AND MARCHES.
COLLECTIVE BEHAVIOR
MAY BE ORGANIZED,
AS IN A STRIKE,
OR IT MAY INVOLVE HIGHLY
EMOTIONAL, SPONTANEOUS ACTIONS,
SUCH AS RIOTS.
THESE SPONTANEOUS ACTIONS
ARE OFTEN THE CATALYST
FOR THE FORMATION OF SOCIAL
MOVEMENTS SEEKING CHANGE.
OFTEN THESE MOVEMENTS BEGIN--
AND ARE SUSTAINED--
BY DEDICATED INDIVIDUALS
WHO CHOOSE TO
TAKE ACTION IN SOCIETY.
CAPTION TECHNOLOGIES INC.
WWW.CAPTIONTECH.COM